The user experience is one of the most important factors in
maintaining a successful application with satisfied customers,
especially when it comes to delivering media such as videos,
music, and immersive games.
As a Cloud architect,
improving the online experience will be one of your top priorities.
In the world of 8K video, 3D games,
and applications where users transmit video story experiences to millions of followers,
leveraging a content delivery network can be the answer to user satisfaction.
Content delivery networks are systems of distributed proxy servers and
data centers that deliver media and other web content to a user,
based on geographic location.
Content delivery networks cache
popular content in multiple points of presence close to the user,
so that the user's request can be retrieved from the local cache and serve more quickly,
than retrieving it from the origin location.
CloudFront is Amazon's content delivery network offering,
serving content through a worldwide network of data centers called edge locations.
Edge locations are located in most major cities around the world,
and their proximity to users cuts down on latency and increases user satisfaction.
The increased performance and availability is due to keeping
frequently requested objects cached in edge locations worldwide.
CloudFront accelerates content distribution by using the AWS network backbone.
Taking advantage of the existing AWS network
reduces the number of networks the request must pass through,
providing much higher transfer rates than using public networks.
When a user requests content served with CloudFront,
the requested content is routed to the edge location that provides the lowest latency,
delivering the content with the best time performance.
When a user requests content,
if the content is already in the edge location with the lowest latency,
CloudFront delivers it immediately.
If the content is not yet in the closest edge location,
CloudFront retrieves it from a predefined origin,
like an Amazon S3 bucket or a web server that you
identify as a source of the original content to the edge cache,
and then it delivers it to the user from the cache.
The origin server can be configured to add headers to the content,
to indicate how long you want the files to stay in the edge location cache.
By default, the file stays in an edge location for 24 hours before it expires.
The minimum expiration time is zero seconds,
and there isn't a maximum expiration time limit.